.TH LIKWID-PERFCTR 1 <DATE> likwid\-<VERSION>
.SH NAME
likwid-perfCtr \- configure and read out hardware performance counters on x86 cpus
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B likwid-perfCtr 
.RB [\-vhVmai]
.RB [ \-c
.IR core_list ]
.RB [ \-g
.IR performance group or performance event string ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B likwid-perfCtr
is a lightweight command line application to configure and read out hardware performance monitoring data
on supported x86 processors. It can measure either as wrapper without changing the measured application
or with marker functions inside the code, which will turn on and off the counters. There are preconfigured
groups with useful event sets and derived metrics. Additonally arbitrary events can be measured with
custom event sets. The marker API can measure mulitple named regions and the results are accumulated.
The following x86 processor families are supported:
.IP \[bu] 
.B Intel Core 2:
all variants.
.IP \[bu] 
.B Intel Nehalem:
all variants (apart from Westmere and Nehalem EX).
.IP \[bu] 
.B Intel Pentium M:
Banias and Dothan variants.
.IP \[bu] 
.B Intel P6:
Tested on P3.
.IP \[bu] 
.B AMD K8:
all variants.
.IP \[bu] 
.B AMD K10:
Barcelona, Shanghai and Istanbul based processors.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\^v
prints version information to standard output, then exits.
.TP
.B \-\^h
prints a help message to standard output, then exits.
.TP
.B \-\^V
verbose output during execution for diagnostic reasons.
.TP
.B \-\^m
run in marker mode
.TP
.B \-\^a
print available performance groups for current processor, then exit.
.TP
.B \-\^i
print cpuid information about processor and on Intel Performance Monitoring features, then exit.
.TP
.B \-\^c " processor_list"
specify a numerical list of processors. The list may contain multiple 
items, separated by comma, and ranges. For example 0,3,9-11.
.TP
.B \-\^g " performance group or performance event string"
specify which performance group to measure. This can be one of the tags output with the -a flag.
Also a custom event set can be specified by a comma separated list of events. Each event has the format
eventId:register with the the register being one of a architecture supported performance counter registers.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Jan Treibig <jan.treibig@gmail.com>.
.SH BUGS
Report Bugs on <http://code.google.com/p/likwid/issues/list>.
.SH SEE ALSO
likwid-topology(1), likwid-features(1), likwid-pin(1)
